Product Requirement Document

Overview / Summary

MyTree is an app that makes learning about climate change fun. Understanding the effects of climate change is important because it’s the first step in taking climate action, but it’s not a fun topic to think about. Users are asked questions about climate change categories and they have a virtual tree. In order to grow the tree, the user has to answer a question correctly. When the user answers incorrectly, the tree shrinks.

iOS first (App Store); Android in a later version.

Goals & Success Criteria

This app will be a success if this can be in an app you can download in the app store by the end of the year. (It’s currently February 16th, 2026)

This is a showcase to future employers that I can code and work with AI as well as design. I’d love if this was a full-time job but I’m aware, it’ll likely just be my side project in the app store and on my portfolio.

We use ‘beta’ to mean the first feature-complete version (100 questions, core features); ‘launch’ is app store release. No separate smaller MVP before beta.

Target Users / Personas

Climate Curious people 
I potentially want this to be used in schools.

User Stories / Use Cases

As a person curious about climate change, I want to learn about climate change so that I can start to take action in the climate

Features & Requirements

Multiple Categories (energy, transportation, food & agriculture, carbon removal) - currently have
    Descriptions - Questions related about climate
    Constraints - 20 questions currently but goal is to have 100 questions for the beta version. 
Virtual Tree - currently have
    Description - The tree grows when a question is correct and the tree shrinks when a question is incorrect.
    Constraints - Right now it’s 5 correct questions to get a tree.
Infographics and explanation - must haves
    Description - Each answer will have a infographic and explanation
    Constraints - this will take a lot of time. I want to make the infographics and it will be fun for me but could be a big reason it won’t launch this year. I do plan on getting someone to help with this though.
Sources - must haves
    Description - Each question should allow the user to read an article about it. 
    Constraints - By providing a link, it’ll take them away from the app. Might have to change the current flow.
Hints - must haves
    Description - Sometimes people don’t know the answer, so they need a hint.
    Constraints - Don’t want the hint to be a cheat code.
Profile - must haves
    Description - Allows the user to save their progress. Eventually, we’ll have a leaderboard, so it’ll be important later on.
    Constraints - Will have to build an onboarding process. Security concerns
Statistics - nice to have
    Description - Users can see how many trees they’ve grown and how many questions they’ve answered correctly. Will eventually be turned into a leaderboard
    Constraints - users may want to compare themselves to others
Leaderboard - nice to have
    Description - A way for users to compete. Trees grown in a week. In a month.
    Constraints - how competitive should they be
Tree Farm - nice to have
    Description - When the tree is fully grown, the tree is put in a tree farm. 
    Constraints - Might be tough to explain this concept to people. Don’t know how expansive this could be.

User Flow / Experience

Home -> Start Quiz -> Category -> Q1 -> Tree Animation -> A1 -> Next Question -> Q2 -> Tree Animation -> A2 -> Next Question -> Q3 -> Tree Animation -> A3 -> Next Question -> Q4 -> Tree Animation -> A4 -> Next Question -> Q5 -> Tree Animation -> A5 
Home
    Start Quiz
    View Tree
    Statistics

Correct Answer Screen
    Correct Answer
    Infographic
    Explanation
    Buttons 
        Next Question
        Source
        View Tree

Incorrect Answer Screen
    Answer user chose
    Correct Answer
    Infographic
    Explanation
    Buttons 
        Next Question
        Source
        View Tree

View Tree
    Tree component
        5 triangles on top
        Trunk
        Ground
    Tree filled
    Tree outline
    Instruction text
    Back button
    Score badge

Statistics
    Specs and Contents TBD after Figma design

Out of Scope (for this release)
Tree Farm and leaderboard

Dependencies & Assumptions

I don’t know how long it’ll take to create infographics
I’ve enjoyed vibe coding but I don’t know if I want to vibe code long term
I’ll need a developer, climate enthusiasts and another designer.

Risks & Open Questions

Are the questions too hard?
    CURRENT THINKING: I think they are too hard. I'm going to add hints to make it easier. I could also label the difficulty of the questions have users pick what works.
Add categories? Subtract categories?
Do I even need categories? Maybe they should be random?
    CURRENT THINKING: I think I'll get rid of categories and make it more random. I do like the icons though. So, maybe I'll have some indicator.
What happens to the tree after you reach 5? What happens when there are 100 questions?
    CURRENT THINKING: Probably will add the tree farm. 
How much info do we need from the user for onboarding?
    CURRENT THINKING: User name, password, email
What happens if the tree farm gets full?
What happens when people have answered all the questions?
    CURRENT THINKING: Might be the reason this won't be sustainable long term.
Providing a link for the source button might take the user away from the screen?
Assuming this idea is validated, How do I monetize this?
    CURRENT THINKING: Bring this to schools. Money might go to a climate related non-profit?
How can this help get users to the next step in taking climate action?
    CURRENT THINKING: Could be another app?

Timeline / Milestones (All dates are tentative)
Beta = feature-complete test version; 
launch = public app store release (same build or plus polish)

February - March 15th
User Testing 
    Build on feedback
    Validate product
    1-on-1 feedback and some communities I’m a part of
Work on Feedback
Build Order: Onboarding -> Statistics -> (later) tree farm; tree farm spec'd early for future build.

March 15th - May 2026
Climatebase Capstone
    Accelerator that can help make this become an actual thing.
    Recruit developer, climate expert and designer

May 2026 - August 2026
    Work on Infographics and get to 100 questions 
    Work on Feedback

August 31 2026
Beta in Public
    Test with users to make sure there are no bugs

December 15th
    Launch App in ios store


Appendix / References

Links to designs, research notes, user testing summary, or other docs that support the PRD
Github Pages: https://boffdub.github.io/mytree/
Figma: https://www.figma.com/design/es1BE4XlfZQvTtnCvWmxF5/Climate-Trivia?node-id=3216-13&p=f&m=dev